---
title: "Docs::Configuration"
layout: docs.liquid
data:
  route: config
---
## Config File

[`_cobalt.yml`](/docs/directory) let's you specify site-wide options as well as defaults for pages.

### Default `_cobalt.yml`:

```yml
# Build options
source: "."
template_extensions:
  - md
  - liquid
include_drafts: false
ignore:
destination: _site

# Site options
site:
  title: ~
  description: ~
  base_url: ~
  sitemap: ~
  data: ~

# Page/Post options
default:
  excerpt_separator: "\n\n"
  is_draft: false
syntax_highlight:
  theme: "base16-ocean.dark"
  enabled: true
assets:
  sass:
    style: Nested
pages:
  default: {}
posts:
  title: ~
  description: ~
  dir: posts
  drafts_dir: _drafts
  order: Desc
  rss: ~
  jsonfeed: ~
  publish_date_in_filename: true
  default: {}
```

### Build options

Setting               | Format          | Description
----------------------|-----------------|------------
`source`              | String          | Directory, relative to `_cobalt.yml`, where content lives.
`template_extensions` | List of Strings | File extensions that mark a file as a [page](/docs/pages) as compared to an asset.
`include_drafts`      | Boolean         | Specifies whether posts marked [`is_draft`](/docs/pages) should be generated by default.  This can be overridden with [command line flags](/docs/usage).
`ignore`              | List of Strings | Specifies what files should be ignored by Cobalt by way [gitignore](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitignore) patterns, relative to `source`.
`destination`         | String          | Directory, relative to `_cobalt.yml`, where the output is written to.

For example to unignore the `.well-known/` folder used in LetsEncrypt, add this to your `_cobalt.yml`.

```yaml
ignore:
  - "!.well-known"
  - "!.well-known/**/*"
```

### Site options

These are all under `site:` in the yaml:

Setting       | Format | Description
--------------|--------|------------
`title`       | String | The title for the site
`description` | String | A description for the site
`base_url`    | String | The root for the site.  This is used in making paths absolute for RSS as well as in Liquid (`{% raw %}{{ site.base_url }}{% endraw %}/docs`).
`sitemap`     | String | Relative path for where to generate a [sitemap XML file](https://www.sitemaps.org).
`data`        | Object | Values made available via the `{%raw%}{{ site.data }}{%endraw%}` variable.

In addition to changing the defaults through CLI arguments/flags, Cobalt allows
to specify a config file (default: [`_cobalt.yml`](/docs/directory)) where you
can store such settings.

### Pages and Posts

Global options:

Setting            | Format      | Description
-------------------|-------------|------------
`default`          | [Frontmatter](/docs/front) | Site-wide defaults for page [frontmatters](/docs/front).
`syntax_highlight` |             | Site-wide syntax highlighting settings
`- theme`          | String      | Site-wide syntax highlighting theme.  Run `cobalt debug highlight themes` for list of available themes
`- enabled`        | Boolean     | Enables or disables site-wide syntax highlighting

These are under `pages:` in the yaml:

Setting            | Format      | Description
-------------------|-------------|------------
`default`          | [Frontmatter](/docs/front) | Defaults for page [frontmatters](/docs/front).

These are under `posts:` in the yaml:

Setting       | Format          | Description
--------------|-----------------|------------
`title`       | String        | Title for the posts collection.  Falls back to `site.title` if not present.
`description` | String        | Description for the posts collection.  Falls back to `site.description` if not present.
`dir`         | String        | Directory, relative to `source`, where posts lives.
`drafts_dir`  | Boolean       | Directory, relative to `source`, where draft posts can live.
`order`       | `Asc`, `Desc` | Sort order for `{%raw%}{{posts}}{%endraw%}` variable.
`rss`         | String        | Path for a posts RSS file.
`jsonfeed`    | String        | Path for a posts jsonfeed file.
`default`     | [Frontmatter](/docs/front) | Defaults for post [frontmatters](/docs/front).
`publish_date_in_filename`|Boolean| Prepend `YYYY-MM-DD-` to filename on `publish`

These are under `assets:` in the yaml:

Setting       | Format | Description
--------------|--------|------------
`sass`        |        | Sass' CSS generation settings
`- style`     | `Nested`, `Expanded`, `Compact`, `Compressed` | Site-wide format style for Sass-generated CSS.
